The process contains the following actors: Manufacturer, Manufacturer of custom-made devices, Manufacturer of implantable devices, Quality Management System, Competent Authority, Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party.

The process starts with placing devices on the market or putting them into service.

The process for the Manufacturer starts.
Manufacturer shall ensure that devices have been designed and manufactured IAW the requirements when placing their devices on the market or putting them into service.
Manufacturer shall carry out the following 4 activities in parallel:

* establish a system for risk management.
* document a system for risk management.
* implement a system for risk management.
* maintain a system for risk management.
All 4 activities shall be completed before next step.
Manufacturer shall conduct a clinical evaluation.
Manufacturer shall draw up technical documentation, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date technical documentation, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices.
Manufacturer shall assess whether compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated. If compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated, Manufacturer shall carry out the following 2 activities in parallel:
* draw up an EU declaration of conformity, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices or Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* affix the CE marking of conformity, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices or Manufacturer of investigational devices.
All 2 activities shall be completed before next step.
Manufacturer shall comply with the obligations.
For a period of at least 10 years after the last device has been placed on the market, Manufacturer shall keep the technical documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and a copy of any relevant certificate, except where Manufacturer of implantable devices.
Upon receiving request for technical documentation, Manufacturer shall provide technical documentation in its entirety or a summary.
Manufacturer shall assess whether manufacturer has a registered place of business outside the Union and allow the authorised representative to fulfil the tasks mentioned in Article 11(3). If manufacturer has a registered place of business outside the Union and allow the authorised representative to fulfil the tasks mentioned in Article 11(3), Manufacturer shall ensure that the authorised representative has the necessary documentation available.
Manufacturer shall ensure that procedures are in place to keep series production in conformity with the requirements.
Manufacturer shall take into account changes in device design or characteristics and changes in the harmonised standards.
Manufacturer shall carry out the following 6 activities in parallel:
* establish a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* document a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* implement a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* maintain a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* keep up to date a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* improve a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
All 6 activities shall be completed before next step.
Manufacturer shall implement the post-market surveillance system.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date the post-market surveillance system.
Manufacturer shall ensure that the device is accompanied by the information.
Manufacturer shall assess whether the device is not in conformity with this Regulation. If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall carry out the following 4 activities in parallel:
* bring the device into conformity.
* withdraw the device.
* recall the device.
* inform the distributors of the device, the authorised representative and importers.
All 4 activities shall be completed before next step.
Manufacturer shall assess whether the device is not in conformity with this Regulation and the device presents a serious risk. If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation and the device presents a serious risk, Manufacturer shall inform the competent authorities and the notified body of the non-compliance.
Manufacturer shall have a system for recording and reporting of incidents and corrective actions.
Upon receiving request for documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the device, Manufacturer shall provide the competent authority with all the information and documentation.
Upon receiving requirement to provide samples of the device free of charge, Manufacturer shall provide samples of the device.
Upon receiving requirement to grant access to the device, Manufacturer shall grant access to the device.
Upon receiving request collaboration with manufacturer, Manufacturer shall cooperate with a competent authority.
Manufacturer shall assess whether manufacturers have their devices designed or manufactured by another legal or natural person. If manufacturers have their devices designed or manufactured by another legal or natural person, Manufacturer shall ensure that the information on the person identity is part of the submitted information.
Manufacturer shall have measures to provide sufficient financial coverage.
The process for the Manufacturer ends with compliance obligations fulfilled end event.

The process for the Manufacturer of custom-made devices starts.
Manufacturer of custom-made devices shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* draw up documentation.
* keep up to date documentation.
* keep available for competent authorities documentation.
All 3 activities shall be completed before next step.
The process for the Manufacturer of custom-made devices ends.

The process for the Manufacturer of implantable devices starts.
For a period of at least 15 years after the last device has been placed on the market, Manufacturer of implantable devices shall keep the technical documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and a copy of any relevant certificate.
The process for the Manufacturer of implantable devices ends.

The process for the Quality Management System starts.
Quality Management System shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* cover all parts and elements of a manufacturer's organisation, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* govern the structure, responsibilities, procedures, processes and management resources, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* address at least the aspects set out in paragraph 9, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
All 3 activities shall be completed before next step.
The process for the Quality Management System ends.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Competent Authority may request technical documentation if required.
Competent Authority shall transmit request for technical documentation to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may request documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the device if required.
Competent Authority shall transmit request for documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the device to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may require that the manufacturer provide samples of the device free of charge if required.
Competent Authority shall transmit requirement to provide samples of the device free of charge to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may require to grant access to the device if required.
Competent Authority shall transmit requirement to grant access to the device to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may request collaboration with manufacturer if required.
Competent Authority shall transmit request collaboration with manufacturer to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may take all appropriate measures to prohibit or restrict the device if the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect.
Competent Authority may withdraw the device from that market if the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect.
Competent Authority may recall the device until the manufacturer cooperates or provides information if the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect.
Competent Authority shall assess whether a competent authority considers or has reason to believe that a device has caused damage and without prejudice to data protection rules. If a competent authority considers or has reason to believe that a device has caused damage and without prejudice to data protection rules, upon receiving request provision of information related to device damage, Competent Authority shall facilitate the provision of the information and documentation to the potentially injured patient or user, except where there is an overriding public interest in disclosure or except where the competent authority need not comply with this obligation where disclosure of the information and documentation referred to in the first subparagraph is ordinarily dealt with in the context of legal proceedings.
The process for the Competent Authority ends.

The process for the Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party starts.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party may request provision of information related to device damage if a competent authority considers or has reason to believe that a device has caused damage.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party shall transmit request provision of information related to device damage to Competent Authority.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party may claim compensation for damage caused by a defective device if required.
The process for the Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party ends.
