The process contains the following actors: Processor, Controller, Supervisory Authority.

The process starts with becoming aware of a personal data breach.

Processor shall notify the controller of a personal data breach after becoming aware of a personal data breach. Processor shall send notification of the personal data breach to Controller. The process for the Processor ends with Notification Sent end event.

The process for the Controller starts.
Upon receiving notification of the personal data breach from Processor or upon becoming aware of a personal data breach, Controller shall assess whether the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk. If the personal data breach is not unlikely to result in a risk, Controller shall notify the personal data breach to the supervisory authority not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, except where the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk. Controller shall send the notification to Supervisory Authority. Controller shall assess whether the notification is not made within 72 hours after having become aware. If the notification is not made within 72 hours after having become aware, Controller shall accompany the notification with reasons for the delay. Controller may provide the information if it is not possible to provide all the information at the same time. Controller shall document any personal data breaches in the case of any personal data breach. Controller shall send the documentation to Supervisory Authority. Controller shall assess whether the data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. If the data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, Controller shall assess whether communication would involve disproportionate effort. If communication would involve disproportionate effort, Controller shall carry out a public communication or similar measure, except where instead of communicating the personal data breach to the data subject. If communication would not involve disproportionate effort, Controller shall communicate the personal data breach to the data subject, except where controller has implemented appropriate technical and organisational protection measures that were applied to the personal data affected and render it unintelligible to unauthorised persons, such as encryption, and except where controller has taken subsequent measures which ensure that the high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects is no longer likely to materialise. Upon receiving requirement to communicate the data breach to the data subject from Supervisory Authority, Controller shall communicate the personal data breach to the data subject. The process for the Controller ends with Breach Addressed end event.

The process for the Supervisory Authority starts.
Upon receiving the notification and documentation from Controller, Supervisory Authority shall verify compliance. Supervisory Authority shall assess whether the controller has not already communicated the personal data breach to the data subject. If the controller has not already communicated, Supervisory Authority shall consider the likelihood of the data breach resulting in a high risk. Supervisory Authority may require the controller to communicate the data breach to the data subject if the personal data breach is likely a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, except where conditions referred to in paragraph 3 are met. Supervisory Authority shall send the requirement to communicate the data breach to Controller. Supervisory Authority may decide that any of the conditions are met if the controller has not already communicated and if the personal data breach is likely a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. The process for the Supervisory Authority ends with Verification Complete end event.
