The process contains the following actors: Commission, Health Professional, Applicant / Representative, Competent Authority.

The process starts with the need to exchange health data before a transfer.

The process for the Commission starts.
Commission shall draw up the common health certificate.
Commission shall adopt implementing acts.
Commission shall adopt uniform conditions and practical arrangements for exchanging the information.
Commission shall adopt those implementing acts.
The process for the Commission ends with the administrative acts adopted end event.

The process for the Health Professional starts.
Health Professional shall carry out the processing of personal health data.
Health Professional shall obtain explicit consent prior to transmitting the information referred to in paragraph 1, except where the applicant is physically or legally incapable of giving his or her consent, when such transmission is necessary to protect the vital interests of the applicant or of another person.
Health Professional shall notify the request for consent to the Applicant / Representative.

The process for the Applicant / Representative starts.
Upon receiving the request for consent, Applicant / Representative shall assess whether to provide consent. If consent is given, Applicant / Representative may provide consent. If consent is refused, Applicant / Representative may refuse consent.
Applicant / Representative shall notify the consent decision to the Health Professional.
The process for the Applicant / Representative ends with the consent decision provided end event.

The process for the Health Professional resumes.
Upon receiving the consent decision, Health Professional shall transmit to the Member State responsible information for the sole purpose of the provision of medical care or treatment in so far as the information is available to the competent authority after having obtained the explicit consent of the applicant / representative or, if the applicant is physically or legally incapable of giving his or her consent, when such transmission is necessary to protect the vital interests of the applicant or of another person.
Health Professional may include information on physical or mental health in specific cases.
Health Professional shall exchange information.
Health Professional shall use exchanged information only for the purposes set out in paragraph 1.
Health Professional shall not further process the information.
Health Professional shall transmit the information to the Competent Authority.
The process for the Health Professional ends with the information exchanged end event.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Upon receiving the information, Competent Authority shall ensure that special needs are adequately addressed.
The process for the Competent Authority ends with the special needs addressed end event.
