The process contains the following actors: Member State, Supervisory Body, Another Supervisory Body, Conformity Assessment Body, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider, and Commission.

The process starts with the regulatory obligation to establish a supervisory framework for trust services.

The process for the Member State starts.
Member State shall designate a supervisory body.
Member State shall give the necessary powers and adequate resources to a supervisory body.
Member State shall notify the names and the addresses of the supervisory bodies to the Commission.
Member State shall assess whether trust infrastructure is required. If trust infrastructure is required, Member State may require the supervisory body to establish, maintain and update a trust infrastructure.
Member State shall assess whether needed. If needed, Member State may authorise their supervisory bodies to carry out joint investigations.
Member State shall assess whether Member States authorise their supervisory bodies to carry out joint investigations. If Member States authorise their supervisory bodies to carry out joint investigations, Member State shall agree upon the arrangements and procedures for such joint actions.
If Member States authorise their supervisory bodies to carry out joint investigations, Member State shall establish the arrangements and procedures for such joint actions.
The process for the Member State ends with the framework established end event.

The process for the Another Supervisory Body starts.
Another Supervisory Body shall request assistance from the Supervisory Body.
Another Supervisory Body shall assess whether authorised. If authorised, Another Supervisory Body shall carry out joint investigations.
The process for the Another Supervisory Body ends with the assistance requested end event.

The process for the Supervisory Body starts.
Supervisory Body shall carry out the following 2 activities in parallel:

* Supervisory Body shall supervise qualified trust service providers.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether informed that those do not meet the requirements. If informed that those do not meet the requirements, Supervisory Body shall take action in relation to non-qualified trust service providers.
All 2 activities shall be completed before the next step.

Supervisory Body shall carry out the following 14 activities in parallel:

* Supervisory Body shall cooperate with other supervisory bodies.
* Supervisory Body shall provide other supervisory bodies with assistance.
* Supervisory Body shall analyse the conformity assessment reports.
* Supervisory Body shall inform other supervisory bodies and the public about breaches of security or loss of integrity.
* By 31 March each year, Supervisory Body shall submit to the Commission a report on its previous year's main activities and a summary of breach notifications.
* Supervisory Body shall carry out audits.
* Supervisory Body shall request a conformity assessment body to perform a conformity assessment.
* Supervisory Body shall cooperate with the data protection authorities.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether personal data protection rules have been breached. If personal data protection rules have been breached, Supervisory Body shall inform the data protection authorities about the results.
* Supervisory Body shall grant qualified status to trust service providers.
* Supervisory Body shall withdraw qualified status from trust service providers.
* Supervisory Body shall inform the body responsible for the national trusted list about the status change, except where that body is also the supervisory body.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether in cases where the qualified trust service provider ceases its activities. If in cases where the qualified trust service provider ceases its activities, Supervisory Body shall verify the existence and correct application of provisions on termination plans.
* Supervisory Body shall require that trust service providers remedy any failure to fulfil the requirements.
All 14 activities shall be completed before the next step.

Supervisory Body shall assess whether required by Member State. If required by Member State, Supervisory Body shall establish a trust infrastructure.
If required by Member State, Supervisory Body shall maintain a trust infrastructure.
If required by Member State, Supervisory Body shall update a trust infrastructure.

Upon receipt of a justified request from another supervisory body, Supervisory Body shall provide assistance.
Supervisory Body shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* Supervisory Body shall assess whether the supervisory body is not competent to provide the assistance. If the supervisory body is not competent to provide the assistance, Supervisory Body shall refuse assistance.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether the requested assistance is not proportionate to supervisory activities. If the requested assistance is not proportionate to supervisory activities, Supervisory Body shall refuse assistance.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether providing the requested assistance would be incompatible with this Regulation. If providing the requested assistance would be incompatible with this Regulation, Supervisory Body shall refuse assistance.
All 3 activities shall be completed before the next step.

Supervisory Body shall assess whether authorised. If authorised, Supervisory Body shall carry out joint investigations.
Supervisory Body shall assess whether a breach of security or loss of integrity concerns two or more Member States. If a breach of security or loss of integrity concerns two or more Member States, Supervisory Body shall inform the supervisory bodies in other Member States concerned and ENISA of the significant incident.
Supervisory Body shall assess whether in the public interest. If in the public interest, Supervisory Body shall require the trust service provider to inform the public about the breach.
If in the public interest, Supervisory Body shall inform the public about the breach of security or loss of integrity.
Once a year, Supervisory Body shall provide ENISA with a summary of notifications of breach.
The process for the Supervisory Body ends with the supervision completed end event.

The process for the Conformity Assessment Body starts.
Upon request, Conformity Assessment Body shall perform a conformity assessment of the qualified trust service providers.
The process for the Conformity Assessment Body ends with the assessment completed end event.

The process for the Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider starts.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall take appropriate technical and organisational measures to manage the risks.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall take measures to prevent and minimise the impact of security incidents.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall inform stakeholders of the adverse effects of any security incidents.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall assess whether the breach of security or loss of integrity has a significant impact on the trust service provided or on the personal data. If the breach of security or loss of integrity has a significant impact on the trust service provided or on the personal data, without undue delay but in any event within 24 hours after having become aware of it, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall notify the supervisory body and other relevant bodies.
If the breach of security or loss of integrity has a significant impact on the trust service provided or on the personal data, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall notify the natural or legal person.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall assess whether required by supervisory body. If required by supervisory body, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall remedy failures to fulfil requirements.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall assess whether in the public interest. If in the public interest, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall inform the public about the breach of security or loss of integrity, except where trust service provider should inform public only if required by supervisory body.
The process for the Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider ends with the requirements fulfilled end event.

The process for the Commission starts.
Upon receiving the annual report, Commission shall make the annual report available to Member States.
Commission shall assess whether adjustments needed. If adjustments needed, Commission may define the formats and procedures for the report.
Commission shall adopt those implementing acts.
Commission shall assess whether specification is required. If specification is required, Commission shall carry out the following 2 activities in parallel:

* Commission may further specify the measures.
* Commission may define the formats and procedures.
All 2 activities shall be completed before the next step.
The process for the Commission ends with the regulation implemented end event.
