The process contains the following actors: Online Platform Provider, Digital Services Coordinator, Trusted Flagger, Commission, Board.

The process starts with the requirement to manage notices from trusted flaggers and applications for trusted flagger status.

The process for the Online Platform Provider starts.
Online Platform Provider shall take the necessary technical and organisational measures for notices.
Online Platform Provider shall assess whether notices submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16. If notices submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16, Online Platform Provider shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:
Online Platform Provider shall give priority for notices.
Online Platform Provider shall process notices.
Online Platform Provider shall decide upon notices.
All 3 activities shall be completed before the next step.
Online Platform Provider shall assess whether a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices. If a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices, Online Platform Provider shall communicate information to the Digital Services Coordinator.
The process for the Online Platform Provider ends.

The process for the Digital Services Coordinator starts.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether upon application by any entity, the applicant is established and the applicant meets all of the conditions. If upon application by any entity, the applicant is established and the applicant meets all of the conditions, Digital Services Coordinator shall award the status of trusted flagger.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether following award of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 2, or following suspension of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 6, or following revocation of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 7. If following award of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 2, or following suspension of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 6, or following revocation of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 7, Digital Services Coordinator shall communicate to the Commission and the Board the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status.
Upon receiving information from a provider of online platforms, Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation. If the Digital Services Coordinator considers that there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation, Digital Services Coordinator shall suspend the status of trusted flagger.
Digital Services Coordinator shall carry out the investigation following suspension of trusted flagger status under paragraph 6 and without undue delay.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether before revoking the trusted flagger status of an entity. If before revoking the trusted flagger status of an entity, Digital Services Coordinator shall afford the entity an opportunity to react to the investigation findings.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether the entity no longer meets the conditions. If the entity no longer meets the conditions, Digital Services Coordinator shall revoke the trusted flagger status.
The process for the Digital Services Coordinator ends.

The process for the Trusted Flagger starts.
At least once a year, Trusted Flagger shall publish reports on notices submitted covering notices submitted during the relevant period and ensuring reports shall include an explanation of the procedures in place to ensure that the trusted flagger retains its independence.
Trusted Flagger shall send reports to the Digital Services Coordinator.
Trusted Flagger shall make reports publicly available.
Upon receiving the opportunity to react to the investigation findings, Trusted Flagger shall react to the investigation findings.
The process for the Trusted Flagger ends.

The process for the Commission starts.
Upon receiving the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status, Commission shall publish information in a publicly available database.
Commission shall keep database up to date.
Commission or Board shall consult before issuing guidelines under paragraph 8.
Commission shall assess whether where necessary and after consulting the Board. If where necessary and after consulting the Board, Commission shall issue guidelines.
The process for the Commission ends.

The process for the Board starts.
Upon receiving the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status, the process for the Board ends.
