The process contains the following actors: Online Platform Provider, Digital Services Coordinator, Trusted Flagger, Commission, Board.

The process starts with an application by any entity for trusted flagger status, the submission of notices, or the need to issue guidelines.

The process for the Online Platform Provider starts.
Online Platform Provider shall take the necessary technical and organisational measures for notices.
Online Platform Provider shall assess whether notices are submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16.
If notices are submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16, Online Platform Provider shall give priority for notices.
If notices are submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16, Online Platform Provider shall process notices.
Online Platform Provider shall assess whether notices acting within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16.
If notices acting within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16, Online Platform Provider shall decide upon notices.
Online Platform Provider shall assess whether a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices.
If a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices, Online Platform Provider shall communicate information to the Digital Services Coordinator.
The process for the Online Platform Provider ends.

The process for the Digital Services Coordinator starts.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether upon application by any entity, the applicant is established and the applicant meets all of the conditions.
If upon application by any entity, the applicant is established and the applicant meets all of the conditions, Digital Services Coordinator shall award the status of trusted flagger.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether it is following award of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 2, or following suspension of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 6, or following revocation of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 7.
If following award of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 2, or following suspension of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 6, or following revocation of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 7, Digital Services Coordinator shall communicate to the Commission and the Board the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status.
Upon receiving reports from the Trusted Flagger, the process for the Digital Services Coordinator continues.
Upon receiving information from an Online Platform Provider, Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether the Digital Services Coordinator considers that there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation.
If the Digital Services Coordinator considers that there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation, Digital Services Coordinator shall suspend the status of trusted flagger.
If following suspension of trusted flagger status under paragraph 6, Digital Services Coordinator shall carry out the investigation without undue delay.
Before revoking the trusted flagger status of an entity, Digital Services Coordinator shall afford the entity an opportunity to react to the investigation findings.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether the entity no longer meets the conditions.
If the entity no longer meets the conditions, Digital Services Coordinator shall revoke the trusted flagger status.
The process for the Digital Services Coordinator ends.

The process for the Trusted Flagger starts.
At least once a year, if covering notices submitted during the relevant period and reports shall include an explanation of the procedures in place to ensure that the trusted flagger retains its independence, Trusted Flagger shall publish reports on notices submitted.
Trusted Flagger shall send reports to the Digital Services Coordinator.
Trusted Flagger shall make reports publicly available.
Upon receiving an opportunity to react to the investigation findings from the Digital Services Coordinator, Trusted Flagger shall react to the investigation findings.
The process for the Trusted Flagger ends.

The process for the Commission starts.
Upon receiving the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status from the Digital Services Coordinator, Commission shall publish information in a publicly available database.
Commission shall keep database up to date.
Before issuing guidelines under paragraph 8, Commission or Board shall consult.
Commission shall assess whether necessary.
If necessary, Commission shall issue guidelines after consulting the Board.
The process for the Commission ends.

The process for the Board starts.
Upon receiving the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status from the Digital Services Coordinator, the process for the Board continues.
Before issuing guidelines under paragraph 8, Commission or Board shall consult.
The process for the Board ends.
