The process contains the following actors: Commission, ENISA (with two lanes: ENISA and Management Board), ECCG, and Interested Party.

The process starts with a new or updated cybersecurity certification scheme being required, triggering parallel workflows for the Commission, the ECCG, and ENISA. The Interested Party provides feedback independently during the scheme evaluation phase.

The Commission shall assess whether to request ENISA to prepare a new candidate scheme or to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme on the basis of the Union rolling work programme. If a new candidate scheme is needed, the Commission shall request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme on the basis of the Union rolling work programme. If a review of an existing scheme is needed, the Commission shall request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme on the basis of the Union rolling work programme.
In duly justified cases, if the candidate scheme or existing scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme, the Commission shall request ENISA to prepare a candidate scheme or to review an existing scheme, and the Commission shall update the Union rolling work programme accordingly.
Upon receiving the candidate scheme transmitted by ENISA, the Commission shall assess whether to adopt implementing acts. If implementing acts are to be adopted, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts.
If necessary, following ENISA's evaluation of an adopted scheme, the Commission shall request ENISA to start the process of developing a revised candidate scheme. The process for the Commission ends with the Process Completed end event.

ENISA starts the process upon receiving a request either from the Commission or from the ECCG. If a request is received from the ECCG, ENISA shall assess whether to refuse it. If the request is to be refused, the Management Board shall take the decision to refuse the request from the ECCG, and ENISA shall then give reasons for the refusal, except where the request is accepted.
If the ECCG request is accepted, or upon receiving a request from the Commission, ENISA shall prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme. When preparing the candidate scheme, ENISA shall consult all relevant stakeholders. ENISA shall establish an ad hoc working group for each candidate scheme being prepared. ENISA shall cooperate with the ECCG throughout the preparation of the candidate scheme. After receiving the opinion of the ECCG on the candidate scheme, ENISA shall take utmost account of that opinion before transmitting the candidate scheme to the Commission. ENISA shall then transmit the candidate scheme to the Commission.
At least every five years, ENISA shall evaluate each adopted European cybersecurity certification scheme, taking into account feedback received from Interested Parties. Upon receiving a request from the Commission or the ECCG, if necessary following that evaluation, ENISA shall start the process of developing a revised candidate scheme.
The process for ENISA ends with the Process Completed end event.

The ECCG shall assess whether to request ENISA to prepare a new candidate cybersecurity certification scheme or to request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme. In duly justified cases where the candidate scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme, the ECCG may request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme out of programme. In duly justified cases where the existing scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme, the ECCG may request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme out of programme.
The ECCG shall provide ENISA with assistance and expert advice in relation to the preparation of the candidate scheme. The ECCG shall adopt an opinion on the candidate scheme and shall transmit it to ENISA.
If necessary, following ENISA's evaluation of an adopted scheme, the ECCG shall request ENISA to start the process of developing a revised candidate scheme. The process for the ECCG ends.

The Interested Party shall provide feedback on the candidate scheme to ENISA. The process for the Interested Party ends with Feedback Provided end event.
