The process contains the following actors: Essential and Important Entity, Trust Service Provider, Competent Authority, CSIRT, Single Point of Contact, ENISA, Commission, Cooperation Group.

The process starts with a significant incident that has a significant impact on the provision of services.

The process for the Essential and Important Entity starts.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether an incident has caused or is capable of causing severe operational disruption of the services or financial loss for the entity concerned, or if an incident has affected or is capable of affecting other natural or legal persons by causing considerable material or non-material damage.
If the condition is true, Essential and Important Entity shall notify the CSIRT or the competent authority.
Essential and Important Entity shall transmit a notification to the CSIRT and the Competent Authority.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether an incident has caused or is capable of causing severe operational disruption of the services or financial loss for the entity concerned, if an incident has affected or is capable of affecting other natural or legal persons by causing considerable material or non-material damage, or if the significant incident is likely to adversely affect the provision of those services.
If the condition is true, Essential and Important Entity shall notify the recipients of their services.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether to determine any cross-border impact of the incident.
If the condition is true, Essential and Important Entity shall report any information.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether applicable.
If the condition is true, Essential and Important Entity shall communicate to the recipients any measures or remedies to take in response to that threat.
Within 24 hours of becoming aware of the significant incident, Essential and Important Entity shall submit to the CSIRT or the competent authority an early warning.
Essential and Important Entity shall transmit an early warning to the CSIRT and the Competent Authority.
Within 72 hours of becoming aware of the significant incident, Essential and Important Entity shall submit to the CSIRT or the competent authority an incident notification.
Essential and Important Entity shall transmit an incident notification to the CSIRT and the Competent Authority.
Upon receiving a request from a CSIRT or the competent authority, Essential and Important Entity shall submit an intermediate report on relevant status updates.
Not later than one month after the submission of the incident notification, Essential and Important Entity shall submit to the CSIRT or the competent authority a final report, except where in the event of an ongoing incident at the time of the submission of the final report, entities shall provide a progress report at that time and a final report within one month of their handling of the incident.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether in the event of an ongoing incident at the time of the submission of the final report.
If the condition is true, Essential and Important Entity shall provide a progress report at the time of submission of the final report, except where the incident is still ongoing at the time of the final report, a progress report replaces the final report at that stage, with the final report due within one month of handling.
Essential and Important Entity may request additional technical support if required.
Essential and Important Entity shall transmit a technical support request to the CSIRT.
Essential and Important Entity may inform the public about the significant incident if public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, upon request, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
The process for the Essential and Important Entity ends with the reporting completion end event.

The process for the Trust Service Provider starts.
Within 24 hours of becoming aware of the significant incident, Trust Service Provider shall notify the CSIRT or the competent authority with regard to significant incidents that have an impact on the provision of its trust services, except where by way of derogation from paragraph 4, first subparagraph, point (b), trust service providers are subject to a 24-hour notification deadline instead of 72 hours.
Trust Service Provider shall transmit a notification to the CSIRT and the Competent Authority.
Trust Service Provider may request guidance or operational advice on the implementation of possible mitigation measures if required.
The process for the Trust Service Provider ends with the notification completion end event.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Competent Authority shall ensure that entities notify CSIRT of significant incidents.
Competent Authority shall ensure that entities report information enabling determination of cross-border impact.
Competent Authority shall assess whether entities notify competent authority of significant incident.
If the condition is true, Competent Authority shall ensure that competent authority forwards notification to CSIRT upon receipt.
Upon receiving a notification, Competent Authority shall assess whether the entities concerned notify the competent authority.
If the condition is true, Competent Authority shall forward the notification to the CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall transmit the notification to the CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall assess whether in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident.
If the condition is true, Competent Authority shall ensure that single points of contact are provided with information.
Competent Authority shall assess whether applicable.
If the condition is true, Competent Authority shall ensure that entities communicate measures to recipients affected.
Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit early warning to CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit incident notification to CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit intermediate report to CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit final report to CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall assess whether incident is ongoing at time of submission of final report under point (d).
If the condition is true, Competent Authority shall ensure that entities provide progress report and final report for ongoing incidents.
Competent Authority shall assess whether the CSIRT is not the initial recipient of the notification and upon request of the notifying entity.
If the condition is true, Competent Authority shall cooperate with the CSIRT on guidance.
The process for the Competent Authority ends with the oversight completion end event.

The process for the CSIRT starts.
Upon receiving a notification, CSIRT or Competent Authority shall determine any cross-border impact of the incident.
CSIRT or Competent Authority shall assess whether in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident.
If the condition is true, CSIRT or Competent Authority shall provide relevant information to Single Point of Contact.
CSIRT or Competent Authority shall transmit relevant information to the Single Point of Contact.
CSIRT or Competent Authority may request an intermediate report on relevant status updates if required.
CSIRT or Competent Authority shall transmit a request to the Essential and Important Entity.
Within 24 hours of receiving the early warning, CSIRT or Competent Authority shall provide a response to the notifying entity including initial feedback on the significant incident.
CSIRT or Competent Authority shall assess whether upon request of the notifying entity.
If the condition is true, CSIRT or Competent Authority shall provide guidance or operational advice, except where the CSIRT is not the initial recipient of the notification, the guidance shall be provided by the competent authority in cooperation with the CSIRT.
Upon receiving a technical support request, CSIRT shall assess whether the entity concerned so requests.
If the condition is true, CSIRT shall provide additional technical support.
CSIRT or Competent Authority shall assess whether the significant incident is suspected to be of criminal nature.
If the condition is true, CSIRT or Competent Authority shall provide guidance on reporting the significant incident to law enforcement authorities.
CSIRT or Competent Authority or Single Point of Contact shall assess whether appropriate, and in particular where the significant incident concerns two or more Member States.
If the condition is true, CSIRT or Competent Authority or Single Point of Contact shall inform the other affected Member States and ENISA of the significant incident.
CSIRT or Competent Authority or Single Point of Contact shall transmit information to the other affected Member States and ENISA.
CSIRT or Competent Authority or Single Point of Contact shall assess whether when informing other affected Member States and ENISA.
If the condition is true, CSIRT or Competent Authority or Single Point of Contact shall preserve the entity's security, commercial interests, the confidentiality of the information.
CSIRT or Competent Authority may consult the entity if public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
CSIRT or Competent Authority may inform the public about the significant incident if public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
CSIRT or Competent Authority may require the entity to inform the public about the significant incident if public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
CSIRT or Competent Authority may request to forward notifications to the single points of contact of other affected Member States if required.
CSIRT or Competent Authority shall transmit a request to the Single Point of Contact.
CSIRT or Competent Authority shall provide to the competent authorities information about significant incidents.
The process for the CSIRT ends with the incident handling completion end event.

The process for the Single Point of Contact starts.
Upon receiving a request, Single Point of Contact shall assess whether at the request of the CSIRT or the competent authority.
If the condition is true, Single Point of Contact shall forward notifications to the single points of contact of other affected Member States.
Every three months, Single Point of Contact shall submit to ENISA a summary report.
Single Point of Contact shall transmit a summary report to ENISA.
The process for the Single Point of Contact ends with the forwarding and reporting completion end event.

The process for the ENISA starts.
Upon receiving a summary report, ENISA may adopt technical guidance if in order to contribute to the provision of comparable information.
Every six months, ENISA shall inform the Cooperation Group and the CSIRTs network about its findings on notifications received.
ENISA shall transmit findings to the Cooperation Group.
The process for the ENISA ends with the findings distribution end event.

The process for the Commission starts.
Commission may adopt implementing acts, specifying the type of information, the format and the procedure of a notification and of a communication if required.
By 17 October 2024, Commission shall adopt implementing acts, specifying the cases in which an incident shall be considered to be significant.
Commission may adopt implementing acts, specifying the cases in which an incident shall be considered to be significant if with regard to essential and important entities.
Commission shall exchange advice and cooperate with the Cooperation Group on the draft.
Commission shall transmit a draft to the Cooperation Group.
Commission shall assess whether when adopting implementing acts under paragraph 11.
If the condition is true, Commission shall adopt implementing acts.
The process for the Commission ends with the implementing acts adoption end event.

The process for the Cooperation Group starts.
Upon receiving a draft, Cooperation Group shall exchange advice and cooperate with the Commission on the draft.
The process for the Cooperation Group ends with the cooperation completion end event.
