The process contains the following actors: Online Platform Provider, Digital Services Coordinator, Trusted Flagger, Commission, Commission or Board, Board.

The process starts with an application by an entity for trusted flagger status, the submission of notices, or the need to issue guidelines.

The process for the Digital Services Coordinator starts.
The Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether upon application by any entity, the applicant is established and the applicant meets all of the conditions.
If upon application by any entity, the applicant is established and the applicant meets all of the conditions, the Digital Services Coordinator shall award the status of trusted flagger.
Upon receiving reports from the Trusted Flagger, the process for the Digital Services Coordinator continues.
Following award of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 2 or following suspension of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 6 or following revocation of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 7, the Digital Services Coordinator shall communicate to the Commission and the Board the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status.
Upon receiving information from the Online Platform Provider, the Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether the Digital Services Coordinator considers that there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation.
If the Digital Services Coordinator considers that there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation, the Digital Services Coordinator shall suspend the status of trusted flagger.
Following suspension of trusted flagger status under paragraph 6 and without undue delay, the Digital Services Coordinator shall carry out the investigation.
Before revoking the trusted flagger status of an entity, the Digital Services Coordinator shall afford the entity an opportunity to react to the investigation findings.
The Digital Services Coordinator shall transmit the opportunity to react to the investigation findings to the Trusted Flagger.
The Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether the entity no longer meets the conditions.
If the entity no longer meets the conditions, the Digital Services Coordinator shall revoke the trusted flagger status.
The process for the Digital Services Coordinator ends with the evaluation completed end event.

The process for the Online Platform Provider starts.
The Online Platform Provider shall take the necessary technical and organisational measures for notices.
The Online Platform Provider shall assess whether notices are submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices are submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16.
If notices are submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices are submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16, the Online Platform Provider shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* Online Platform Provider shall give priority for notices.
* Online Platform Provider shall process notices.
* Online Platform Provider shall decide upon notices.
All 3 activities shall be completed before the next step.
The Online Platform Provider shall assess whether a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices.
If a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices, the Online Platform Provider shall communicate information to the Digital Services Coordinator.
The process for the Online Platform Provider ends with the notices processed end event.

The process for the Trusted Flagger starts.
At least once a year, covering notices submitted during the relevant period, and provided reports shall include an explanation of the procedures in place to ensure that the trusted flagger retains its independence, the Trusted Flagger shall publish reports on notices submitted.
The Trusted Flagger shall send reports to the Digital Services Coordinator.
The Trusted Flagger shall make reports publicly available.
Upon receiving the opportunity to react to the investigation findings from the Digital Services Coordinator, the Trusted Flagger shall react to the investigation findings.
The process for the Trusted Flagger ends with the reporting and investigation reaction completed end event.

The process for the Commission starts.
Upon receiving the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status from the Digital Services Coordinator, the Commission shall publish information in a publicly available database.
The Commission shall keep database up to date.
The Commission shall assess whether guidelines are necessary.
If guidelines are necessary, the Commission shall issue guidelines after consulting the Board.
The process for the Commission ends with the database and guidelines updated end event.

The process for the Commission or Board starts.
Before issuing guidelines under paragraph 8, the Commission or Board shall consult.
The process for the Commission or Board ends with the consultation completed end event.

The process for the Board starts.
Upon receiving the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status from the Digital Services Coordinator, the process for the Board ends.
