The process contains the following actors: Commission, ECCG, ENISA (with lanes: ENISA, Management Board), Interested Party.

The process starts with the identification of a need for a new or reviewed European cybersecurity certification scheme.

The process for the Commission starts.
Commission shall assess whether the scheme is on the basis of the Union rolling work programme.
If the scheme is on the basis of the Union rolling work programme, Commission may request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme.
Commission may request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme if on the basis of the Union rolling work programme.
Commission shall assess whether the scheme is in duly justified cases and the candidate scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme.
If in duly justified cases and the candidate scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme, Commission may request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme.
Commission may request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme if in duly justified cases and the existing scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme.
Commission shall update the Union rolling work programme if following a request under paragraph 2.
Commission shall transmit the request to ENISA.
Upon receiving the candidate scheme, Commission may adopt implementing acts if based on the candidate scheme prepared by ENISA and in accordance with the examination procedure.
Commission may request ENISA to start the process of developing a revised candidate scheme in accordance with Article 48 and Article 49 if necessary.
Commission shall transmit the request for a revised candidate scheme to ENISA.
The process for the Commission ends with the scheme adoption or revision request end event.

The process for the ECCG starts.
ECCG shall assess whether the scheme is in duly justified cases and not included in the Union rolling work programme.
If in duly justified cases and the candidate scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme, ECCG may request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme.
ECCG may request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme if in duly justified cases and the existing scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme.
ECCG shall transmit the request to ENISA.
Upon receiving notification of preparation, ECCG shall provide ENISA with assistance and expert advice if in relation to the preparation of the candidate scheme.
ECCG shall adopt an opinion on the candidate scheme.
ECCG shall transmit the opinion to ENISA.
ECCG may request ENISA to start the process of developing a revised candidate scheme in accordance with Article 48 and Article 49 if necessary.
ECCG shall transmit the request for a revised candidate scheme to ENISA.
The process for the ECCG ends with the scheme opinion or revision request end event.

The process for ENISA starts.
Upon receiving the request, ENISA shall assess whether the request is from the Commission or the ECCG.
If following a request from the Commission, ENISA shall prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme.
If following a request from ECCG, ENISA may prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme.
ENISA shall assess whether it decides to refuse a request from the ECCG.
If ENISA refuses a request from the ECCG, ENISA shall give reasons for refusal of preparing a candidate scheme.
Management Board shall take decision to refuse a request if ENISA decides to refuse a request from the ECCG pursuant to Article 48(2).
If ENISA prepares a candidate scheme, ENISA shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* ENISA shall consult all relevant stakeholders when preparing a candidate scheme.
* ENISA shall establish an ad hoc working group for each candidate scheme being prepared.
* ENISA shall cooperate with the ECCG.
All 3 activities shall be completed before the transmission step.
Upon receiving the opinion from the ECCG, ENISA shall take utmost account of the ECCG opinion if before transmitting the candidate scheme prepared in accordance with paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 to the Commission, except where the absence of an ECCG opinion shall not prevent ENISA from transmitting the candidate scheme to the Commission and except where the opinion of the ECCG shall not bind ENISA.
ENISA shall transmit the candidate scheme to the Commission, except where absence of the ECCG opinion shall not prevent transmission.
At least every five years, ENISA shall evaluate each adopted European cybersecurity certification scheme taking into account feedback received from interested parties.
Upon receiving a request from the Commission or ECCG, ENISA shall start developing a revised candidate scheme.
The process for ENISA ends with the candidate scheme evaluation or revision start end event.

The process for the Interested Party starts.
Interested Party may provide feedback if required.
Interested Party shall transmit the feedback to ENISA.
The process for the Interested Party ends with the feedback provision end event.
