The process contains the following actors: the Processor, the Controller, and the Supervisory authority.

The process starts with a personal data breach, simultaneously triggering subprocesses for the Processor and the Controller.

The process for the Processor starts.
The Processor shall notify the Controller without undue delay after becoming aware of a personal data breach.
The process for the Processor ends with the notification sent end event.

The process for the Controller starts.
Upon receiving the notification from the Processor, the Controller shall assess whether the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
If the personal data breach is likely to result in a risk, the Controller shall notify the personal data breach to the Supervisory authority without undue delay, except where the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
Within not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, the Controller shall notify the personal data breach to the Supervisory authority.
The Controller shall assess whether the notification to the Supervisory authority is made within 72 hours.
If the notification to the Supervisory authority is not made within 72 hours, the Controller shall accompany the notification with reasons for the delay.
The Controller shall assess whether it is possible to provide the information at the same time.
If it is not possible to provide the information at the same time, the Controller may provide the information in phases without undue further delay.
The Controller shall carry out the following 4 activities in parallel:
- The Controller shall describe the nature of the personal data breach including where possible, the categories and approximate number of data subjects concerned and the categories and approximate number of personal data records concerned.
- The Controller shall communicate the name and contact details of the data protection officer or other contact point where more information can be obtained.
- The Controller shall describe the likely consequences of the personal data breach.
- The Controller shall describe the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the Controller to address the personal data breach, including measures to mitigate its possible adverse effects.
All 4 activities shall be completed before the next step.
The Controller shall document any personal data breaches.
The Controller shall include the facts relating to the personal data breach, its effects and the remedial action taken in the documentation.
The Controller shall assess whether the personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
If the personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk, the Controller shall communicate the personal data breach to the data subject without undue delay, except where the Controller has implemented appropriate technical and organisational protection measures, the Controller has taken subsequent measures which ensure the high risk is no longer likely to materialise, or it would involve disproportionate effort.
The Controller shall describe in clear and plain language the nature of the personal data breach in the communication to the data subject.
The Controller shall contain at least the information and measures referred to in points (b), (c) and (d) of Article 33(3) in the communication.
The Controller shall assess whether the communication would involve disproportionate effort.
If it would involve disproportionate effort, the Controller shall make a public communication or similar measure whereby the data subjects are informed in an equally effective manner.
Upon receiving a requirement from the Supervisory authority, the Controller shall communicate the personal data breach to the data subject.
The process for the Controller ends with the documentation and communication completed end event.

The process for the Supervisory authority starts.
Upon receiving the personal data breach notification from the Controller, the Supervisory authority shall verify compliance with this Article.
The Supervisory authority shall assess whether the Controller has not already communicated the personal data breach to the data subject.
If the Controller has not already communicated the personal data breach to the data subject, the Supervisory authority shall consider the likelihood of the personal data breach resulting in a high risk.
If the Controller has not already communicated the personal data breach to the data subject, the Supervisory authority may require the Controller to communicate the personal data breach to the data subject.
If the Controller has not already communicated the personal data breach to the data subject, the Supervisory authority may decide that any of the conditions referred to in paragraph 3 are met.
The process for the Supervisory authority ends with the verification and assessment completed end event.