The process contains the following actors: Processor, Controller, Supervisory Authority.

The process starts with a personal data breach.

The process for the Processor starts.
After becoming aware of a personal data breach, the Processor shall notify the controller of a personal data breach.
The process for the Processor ends.

The process for the Controller starts.
Upon receiving the notification of a personal data breach from the processor, or in the case of a personal data breach, the Controller shall notify the personal data breach to the supervisory authority not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, except where the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk.
The Controller shall assess whether the notification is not made within 72 hours after having become aware.
If the notification is not made within 72 hours after having become aware, the Controller shall accompany the notification with reasons for the delay.
The Controller shall assess whether it is not possible to provide all the information at the same time.
If it is not possible to provide all the information at the same time, the Controller may provide the information.
In the case of any personal data breach, the Controller shall document any personal data breaches.
The Controller shall assess whether the data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
If the data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the Controller shall communicate the personal data breach to the data subject, except where the controller has implemented appropriate technical and organisational protection measures that were applied to the personal data affected and render it unintelligible to unauthorised persons, such as encryption, or except where the controller has taken subsequent measures which ensure that the high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects is no longer likely to materialise, or except where communication would involve disproportionate effort.
The Controller shall assess whether communication to the data subject would involve disproportionate effort.
If communication to the data subject would involve disproportionate effort, the Controller shall carry out a public communication or similar measure, except where instead of communicating the personal data breach to the data subject.
The process for the Controller ends.

The process for the Supervisory Authority starts.
Upon receiving the notification and documentation of the personal data breach from the Controller, the Supervisory Authority shall verify compliance.
The Supervisory Authority shall consider the likelihood of the data breach resulting in a high risk.
The Supervisory Authority shall assess whether the controller has not already communicated the data breach to the data subject and whether the personal data breach is likely a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
If the controller has not already communicated and the personal data breach is likely a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the Supervisory Authority may require the controller to communicate the data breach to the data subject, except where the conditions referred to in paragraph 3 are met.
If the controller has not already communicated and the personal data breach is likely a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the Supervisory Authority may decide that any of the conditions are met.
The process for the Supervisory Authority ends.
