The process contains the following actors: Commission, Applicant / Representative, Health Professional, Competent Authority.

The process starts with the need to exchange health data before a transfer is carried out.

The process for the Commission starts.
The Commission shall Draw up the common health certificate.
The Commission shall Adopt implementing acts.
The Commission shall Adopt uniform conditions and practical arrangements for exchanging the information.
The Commission shall Adopt those implementing acts.
The process for the Commission ends.

The process for the Applicant / Representative starts.
The Applicant / Representative may Provide consent if required.
The Applicant / Representative may Refuse consent if required.
The Applicant / Representative shall transmit the consent decision to the Health Professional.
The process for the Applicant / Representative ends.

The process for the Health Professional starts.
The Health Professional shall Carry out the processing of personal health data.
The Health Professional shall Obtain explicit consent if prior to transmitting the information referred to in paragraph 1, except where the applicant is physically or legally incapable of giving his or her consent, when such transmission is necessary to protect the vital interests of the applicant or of another person.
Upon receiving the consent decision, the Health Professional shall Exchange information.
The Health Professional shall Transmit to the Member State responsible information to the Competent Authority if for the sole purpose of the provision of medical care or treatment, in so far as the information is available to the competent authority, and after having obtained the explicit consent of the applicant / representative or, if the applicant is physically or legally incapable of giving his or her consent, when such transmission is necessary to protect the vital interests of the applicant or of another person.
The Health Professional may Include information on physical or mental health if in specific cases.
The Health Professional shall Use exchanged information if only for the purposes set out in paragraph 1.
The Health Professional shall not Further process the information.
The process for the Health Professional ends.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Upon receiving the information, the Competent Authority shall Ensure that special needs are adequately addressed.
The process for the Competent Authority ends.
