The process contains the following actors: Member State, Customer or Beneficial Owner, Obliged Entity.

The process starts with the intention to establish a business relationship or carry out a transaction.

Member State shall require verification of the identity before the establishment of a business relationship or the carrying out of the transaction, except where Member States may allow verification to be completed during the establishment of a business relationship rather than before it.
Member State shall assess whether it is necessary so as not to interrupt the normal conduct of business and where there is little risk of money laundering or terrorist financing.
If it is necessary so as not to interrupt the normal conduct of business and where there is little risk of money laundering or terrorist financing, Member State may allow verification of the identity to be completed during the relationship establishment.
Member State may allow the opening of an account provided that there are adequate safeguards in place, except where Member States may allow the opening of an account before full verification has been completed, subject to adequate safeguards.
Member State shall require that obliged entities apply the customer due diligence measures.
The process for the Member State ends.

The process for the Customer or Beneficial Owner starts.
Customer or Beneficial Owner shall verify the identity before the establishment of a business relationship or the carrying out of the transaction.
Customer or Beneficial Owner shall assess whether verification of the identity is allowed to be completed during the establishment of a business relationship.
If verification of the identity is allowed to be completed during the establishment of a business relationship, Customer or Beneficial Owner shall complete identity verification procedures as soon as practicable after initial contact.
The process for the Customer or Beneficial Owner ends.

The process for the Obliged Entity starts.
Obliged Entity shall apply the customer due diligence measures.
Obliged Entity shall assess whether an obliged entity is unable to comply with the customer due diligence requirements.
If an obliged entity is unable to comply with the customer due diligence requirements, Obliged Entity shall carry out the following 5 activities in parallel:

* Obliged Entity shall not carry out a transaction through a bank account, except where the entity is a Notary, Independent Legal Professional, Auditor, External Accountant, or Tax Advisor.
* Obliged Entity shall not establish a business relationship, except where the entity is a Notary, Independent Legal Professional, Auditor, External Accountant, or Tax Advisor.
* Obliged Entity shall not carry out the transaction, except where the entity is a Notary, Independent Legal Professional, Auditor, External Accountant, or Tax Advisor.
* Obliged Entity shall terminate the business relationship, except where the entity is a Notary, Independent Legal Professional, Auditor, External Accountant, or Tax Advisor.
* Obliged Entity shall consider making a suspicious transaction report to the FIU, except where the entity is a Notary, Independent Legal Professional, Auditor, External Accountant, or Tax Advisor.
All 5 activities shall be completed before the next step.
The process for the Obliged Entity ends.
