The process contains the following actors: Manufacturer (with 3 lanes: Manufacturer of custom-made devices, Manufacturer of investigational devices, Manufacturer of implantable devices), Quality Management System, Competent Authority, Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party.

The process starts with placing their devices on the market or putting them into service.

The process for the Manufacturer starts.
Manufacturer shall ensure that devices have been designed and manufactured IAW the requirements when placing their devices on the market or putting them into service.
Manufacturer shall establish a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall document a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall implement a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall maintain a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall conduct a clinical evaluation.
Manufacturer shall draw up technical documentation, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date technical documentation, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices.
Manufacturer of custom-made devices shall draw up documentation.
Manufacturer of custom-made devices shall keep up to date documentation.
Manufacturer of custom-made devices shall keep available for competent authorities documentation.
Manufacturer shall assess whether compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated.
If compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated, Manufacturer shall draw up an EU declaration of conformity, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices and except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
If compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated, Manufacturer shall affix the CE marking of conformity, except where Manufacturer of custom-made devices and except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall comply with the obligations.
Manufacturer shall assess whether the device is an implantable device.
If the device is not an implantable device, Manufacturer shall keep the technical documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and a copy of any relevant certificate for a period of at least 10 years after the last device has been placed on the market, except where Manufacturer of implantable devices.
If the device is an implantable device, Manufacturer of implantable devices shall keep the technical documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and a copy of any relevant certificate for a period of at least 15 years after the last device has been placed on the market.
Manufacturer shall ensure that the authorised representative has the necessary documentation available if manufacturer has a registered place of business outside the Union and to allow the authorised representative to fulfil the tasks mentioned in Article 11(3).
Manufacturer shall ensure that procedures are in place to keep series production in conformity with the requirements.
Manufacturer shall take into account changes in device design or characteristics and changes in the harmonised standards.
Manufacturer shall establish a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall document a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall implement a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall maintain a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall improve a quality management system, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall implement the post-market surveillance system.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date the post-market surveillance system.
Manufacturer shall ensure that the device is accompanied by the information.
Manufacturer shall assess whether the device is not in conformity with this Regulation.
If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall bring the device into conformity.
If the device conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall withdraw the device.
If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall recall the device.
If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall inform the distributors of the device, the authorised representative and importers.
If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation and if the device presents a serious risk, Manufacturer shall inform the competent authorities and the notified body of the non-compliance.
Manufacturer shall transmit the non-compliance information to Competent Authority.
Manufacturer shall have a system for recording and reporting of incidents and corrective actions.
Manufacturer shall ensure that the information on the person identity is part of the submitted information where manufacturers have their devices designed or manufactured by another legal or natural person.
Manufacturer shall have measures to provide sufficient financial coverage.
Upon receiving the request for technical documentation, Manufacturer shall provide technical documentation in its entirety or a summary.
Upon receiving the request for documentation necessary to demonstrate conformity, Manufacturer shall provide the competent authority with all the information and documentation.
Upon receiving the requirement for samples, Manufacturer shall provide samples of the device.
Upon receiving the notification to grant access, Manufacturer shall grant access to the device.
Upon receiving the request for collaboration, Manufacturer shall cooperate with a competent authority.
The process for the Manufacturer ends with general obligations fulfilled end event.

The process for the Quality Management System starts.
Quality Management System shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* Quality Management System shall cover all parts and elements of a manufacturer's organisation, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* Quality Management System shall govern the structure, responsibilities, procedures, processes and management resources, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
* Quality Management System shall address at least the aspects set out in paragraph 9, except where Manufacturer of investigational devices.
All 3 activities shall be completed before quality system documentation continues.
The process for the Quality Management System ends with system specifications completed end event.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Upon receiving the non-compliance information, Competent Authority shall process the non-compliance notification.
Competent Authority may request technical documentation if required.
Competent Authority shall send the request for technical documentation to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may request documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the device if required.
Competent Authority shall send the request for documentation necessary to demonstrate conformity to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may require that the manufacturer provide samples of the device free of charge if required.
Competent Authority shall send the requirement for samples to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may require to grant access to the device if required.
Competent Authority shall send the notification to grant access to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may request collaboration with manufacturer if required.
Competent Authority shall send the request for collaboration to Manufacturer.
Competent Authority shall assess whether the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect.
If the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect, Competent Authority may take all appropriate measures to prohibit or restrict the device.
If the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect, Competent Authority may withdraw the device from that market.
If the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect, Competent Authority may recall the device until the manufacturer cooperates or provides information.
Upon receiving the request for provision of information related to device damage, Competent Authority shall facilitate the provision of the information and documentation to the potentially injured patient or user if a competent authority considers or has reason to believe that a device has caused damage and without prejudice to data protection rules, except where there is an overriding public interest in disclosure and except where the competent authority need not comply with this obligation where disclosure of the information and documentation referred to in the first subparagraph is ordinarily dealt with in the context of legal proceedings.
The process for the Competent Authority ends with authority oversight completed end event.

The process for the Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party starts.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party may request provision of information related to device damage if a competent authority considers or has reason to believe that a device has caused damage.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party shall send the request for provision of information related to device damage to Competent Authority.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party may claim compensation for damage caused by a defective device if required.
The process for the Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party ends with claims and requests resolved end event.
