The process contains the following actors: Online Platform Provider, Digital Services Coordinator, Trusted Flagger, Commission, Board.

The process starts with an application by any entity for trusted flagger status, or the submission of notices by a trusted flagger.

The process for the Online Platform Provider starts.
Online Platform Provider shall take the necessary technical and organisational measures for notices.
Online Platform Provider shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* Online Platform Provider shall give priority for notices if notices submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16.
* Online Platform Provider shall process notices if notices submitted within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16.
* Online Platform Provider shall decide upon notices if notices acting within their designated area of expertise and notices submitted through the mechanisms referred to in Article 16.
All 3 activities shall be completed before the next step.
Online Platform Provider shall assess whether a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices. If a trusted flagger has submitted insufficiently precise, inaccurate or inadequately substantiated notices, Online Platform Provider shall communicate information to the Digital Services Coordinator.
The process for the Online Platform Provider ends with the notice handling end event.

The process for the Digital Services Coordinator starts.
Digital Services Coordinator shall award the status of trusted flagger if upon application by any entity, the applicant is established, and the applicant meets all of the conditions.
Digital Services Coordinator shall communicate to the Commission and the Board the names, addresses and email addresses of entities awarded, suspended, or revoked trusted flagger status following award of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 2, or following suspension of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 6, or following revocation of trusted flagger status in accordance with paragraph 7.
Upon receiving information from an Online Platform Provider, Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation. If the Digital Services Coordinator considers that there are legitimate reasons to open an investigation, Digital Services Coordinator shall suspend the status of trusted flagger.
Digital Services Coordinator shall carry out the investigation following suspension of trusted flagger status under paragraph 6 and without undue delay.
Digital Services Coordinator shall assess whether the entity no longer meets the conditions. If the entity no longer meets the conditions, Digital Services Coordinator shall afford the entity an opportunity to react to the investigation findings before revoking the trusted flagger status of an entity.
Digital Services Coordinator shall transmit the investigation findings to the Trusted Flagger.
Upon receiving the reaction to the investigation findings from the Trusted Flagger, Digital Services Coordinator shall revoke the trusted flagger status if the entity no longer meets the conditions.
The process for the Digital Services Coordinator ends with the status determination end event.

The process for the Trusted Flagger starts.
Trusted Flagger shall carry out the following 3 activities in parallel:

* At least once a year, Trusted Flagger shall publish reports on notices submitted if covering notices submitted during the relevant period, provided that the reports shall include an explanation of the procedures in place to ensure that the trusted flagger retains its independence.
* Trusted Flagger shall send reports to the Digital Services Coordinator.
* Trusted Flagger shall make reports publicly available.
All 3 activities shall be completed before the next step.
Upon receiving the investigation findings from the Digital Services Coordinator, Trusted Flagger shall react to the investigation findings.
The process for the Trusted Flagger ends with the compliance and response end event.

The process for the Commission starts.
Upon receiving the names, addresses and email addresses of entities from the Digital Services Coordinator, Commission shall publish information in a publicly available database.
Commission shall keep database up to date.
Commission shall assess whether guidelines are necessary. If necessary, Commission or Board shall consult before issuing guidelines under paragraph 8.
Commission shall issue guidelines where necessary and after consulting the Board.
The process for the Commission ends with the guidelines publication end event.

The process for the Board starts.
Upon receiving a consultation request from the Commission, Commission or Board shall consult before issuing guidelines under paragraph 8.
The process for the Board ends with the consultation end event.
