The process contains the following actors: Commission, ECCG, ENISA (with lane: Management Board), Interested Party.

The process starts with the identification of a need to prepare or review a European cybersecurity certification scheme on the basis of the Union rolling work programme or in duly justified cases.

The process for the Commission starts.
The Commission may request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme if on the basis of the Union rolling work programme.
The Commission may request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme if on the basis of the Union rolling work programme.
The Commission may request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme if in duly justified cases and the candidate scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme.
The Commission may request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme if in duly justified cases and the existing scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme.
The Commission shall assess whether a request was made under paragraph 2. If a request was made under paragraph 2, the Commission shall update the Union rolling work programme following a request under paragraph 2.
The Commission shall transmit the request to ENISA.
Upon receiving the candidate scheme from ENISA, the Commission may adopt implementing acts if based on the candidate scheme prepared by ENISA and in accordance with the examination procedure.
The Commission may request ENISA to start the process of developing a revised candidate scheme in accordance with Article 48 and Article 49 if necessary.
If requesting a revised scheme, the Commission shall transmit the request to ENISA.
The process for the Commission ends with the scheme adoption or revision request end event.

The process for the ECCG starts.
The ECCG may request ENISA to prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme if in duly justified cases and the candidate scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme.
The ECCG may request ENISA to review an existing European cybersecurity certification scheme if in duly justified cases and the existing scheme is not included in the Union rolling work programme.
If requesting a scheme preparation or review, the ECCG shall transmit the request to ENISA.
Upon receiving a notification for cooperation from ENISA, the ECCG shall carry out the following 2 activities in parallel:

* The ECCG shall provide ENISA with assistance and expert advice if in relation to the preparation of the candidate scheme.
* The ECCG shall adopt an opinion on the candidate scheme.
All 2 activities shall be completed before transmitting the results to ENISA.
The ECCG shall transmit the opinion and expert advice to ENISA.
The ECCG may request ENISA to start the process of developing a revised candidate scheme in accordance with Article 48 and Article 49 if necessary.
If requesting a revised scheme, the ECCG shall transmit the request to ENISA.
The process for the ECCG ends with the ECCG participation end event.

The process for the ENISA starts.
Upon receiving a request from the Commission or the ECCG, ENISA shall assess the origin of the request.
If the request is from the Commission, ENISA shall prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme following a request from the Commission.
If the request is from the ECCG, ENISA may prepare a candidate cybersecurity certification scheme following a request from ECCG.
ENISA shall assess whether to prepare or refuse the candidate scheme. If ENISA decides to refuse a request from the ECCG pursuant to Article 48(2), the Management Board shall take decision to refuse a request.
If ENISA refuses a request from the ECCG, ENISA shall give reasons for refusal of preparing a candidate scheme.
If ENISA prepares a candidate scheme, ENISA shall consult all relevant stakeholders when preparing a candidate scheme.
ENISA shall establish an ad hoc working group for each candidate scheme being prepared.
ENISA shall cooperate with the ECCG.
ENISA shall transmit a notification for cooperation to the ECCG.
Upon receiving the opinion and expert advice from the ECCG, ENISA shall take utmost account of the ECCG opinion before transmitting the candidate scheme prepared in accordance with paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 to the Commission, except where the absence of an ECCG opinion shall not prevent ENISA from transmitting the candidate scheme to the Commission, and except where the opinion of the ECCG shall not bind ENISA.
ENISA shall transmit the candidate scheme to the Commission, except where absence of the ECCG opinion shall not prevent transmission.
Upon receiving feedback from the Interested Party, and at least every five years, ENISA shall evaluate each adopted European cybersecurity certification scheme taking into account feedback received from interested parties.
Upon receiving a request from the Commission or the ECCG to develop a revised scheme, ENISA shall start developing a revised candidate scheme if requested by Commission or ECCG.
The process for the ENISA ends with the scheme transmission or evaluation end event.

The process for the Interested Party starts.
The Interested Party may provide feedback if required.
The Interested Party shall transmit the feedback to ENISA.
The process for the Interested Party ends with the feedback transmission end event.
