The process contains the following actors: Commission, Applicant / Representative, Health Professional, Competent Authority.

The process starts with the need to exchange health data before a transfer is carried out, simultaneously triggering the subprocesses for the actors.

The process for the Commission starts.
Commission shall Draw up the common health certificate.
Commission shall Adopt implementing acts.
Commission shall Adopt uniform conditions and practical arrangements for exchanging the information.
Commission shall Adopt those implementing acts.
The process for the Commission ends with the regulatory framework established end event.

The process for the Applicant / Representative starts.
Applicant / Representative shall assess whether to consent to the transmission of information. If consent is given, Applicant / Representative may Provide consent. If consent is denied, Applicant / Representative may Refuse consent.
Applicant / Representative shall notify the consent decision to the Health Professional.
The process for the Applicant / Representative ends with the consent decision end event.

The process for the Health Professional starts.
Upon receiving the consent decision, Health Professional shall Obtain explicit consent prior to transmitting the information referred to in paragraph 1, except where the applicant is physically or legally incapable of giving his or her consent, when such transmission is necessary to protect the vital interests of the applicant or of another person.
Health Professional shall Carry out the processing of personal health data.
Health Professional shall assess whether the data is for the sole purpose of the provision of medical care or treatment, and in so far as the information is available to the competent authority, and after having obtained the explicit consent of the applicant / representative or, if the applicant is physically or legally incapable of giving his or her consent, when such transmission is necessary to protect the vital interests of the applicant or of another person. If the conditions are true, Health Professional shall Transmit to the Member State responsible information.
Health Professional may Include information on physical or mental health in specific cases.
Health Professional shall transmit the information to the Competent Authority.
Health Professional shall Exchange information.
Health Professional shall Use exchanged information if only for the purposes set out in paragraph 1.
Health Professional shall not Further process the information.
The process for the Health Professional ends with the information exchanged end event.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Upon receiving the information, Competent Authority shall Ensure that special needs are adequately addressed.
The process for the Competent Authority ends with the special needs addressed end event.
