The process contains the following actors: Member State, Supervisory Body, Another Supervisory Body, Commission, Conformity Assessment Body, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider.

The process starts with the implementation of the regulatory framework for trust services.

The process for the Member State starts.
Member State shall designate a supervisory body.
Member State shall give the necessary powers and adequate resources to a supervisory body.
Member State shall notify to the Commission the names and the addresses of the supervisory bodies.
Member State shall transmit the names and the addresses of the supervisory bodies to Commission.
Member State may require the supervisory body to establish, maintain and update a trust infrastructure if trust infrastructure is required.
Member State may authorise their supervisory bodies to carry out joint investigations if needed.
Member State shall carry out the following 2 activities in parallel:

* Member State shall agree upon the arrangements and procedures for such joint actions if Member States authorise their supervisory bodies to carry out joint investigations.
* Member State shall establish the arrangements and procedures for such joint actions if Member States authorise their supervisory bodies to carry out joint investigations.
All 2 activities shall be completed before the next step.
The process for the Member State ends.

The process for the Supervisory Body starts.
Supervisory Body shall carry out the following 2 activities in parallel:

* Supervisory Body shall supervise qualified trust service providers.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether informed that those do not meet the requirements. If informed that those do not meet the requirements, Supervisory Body shall take action in relation to non-qualified trust service providers.
All 2 activities shall be completed before the next step.
Supervisory Body shall carry out the following 14 activities in parallel:
* Supervisory Body shall cooperate with other supervisory bodies.
* Supervisory Body shall provide other supervisory bodies with assistance.
* Supervisory Body shall analyse the conformity assessment reports.
* Supervisory Body shall inform other supervisory bodies and the public about breaches of security or loss of integrity.
* Supervisory Body shall carry out audits.
* Supervisory Body shall request a conformity assessment body to perform a conformity assessment.
* Supervisory Body shall transmit a request to Conformity Assessment Body.
* Supervisory Body shall cooperate with the data protection authorities.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether personal data protection rules have been breached. If personal data protection rules have been breached, Supervisory Body shall inform the data protection authorities about the results.
* Supervisory Body shall grant qualified status to trust service providers.
* Supervisory Body shall withdraw qualified status from trust service providers.
* Supervisory Body shall inform the body responsible for the national trusted list about the status change, except where that body is also the supervisory body.
* Supervisory Body shall assess whether the qualified trust service provider ceases its activities. If the qualified trust service provider ceases its activities, Supervisory Body shall verify the existence and correct application of provisions on termination plans.
* Supervisory Body shall require that trust service providers remedy any failure to fulfil the requirements.
All 14 activities shall be completed before the next step.
Supervisory Body shall establish a trust infrastructure if required by Member State.
Supervisory Body shall maintain a trust infrastructure if required by Member State.
Supervisory Body shall update a trust infrastructure if required by Member State.
By 31 March each year, Supervisory Body shall submit to the Commission a report on its previous year's main activities and a summary of breach notifications.
Supervisory Body shall transmit a report on its previous year's main activities and a summary of breach notifications to Commission.
Upon receiving a justified request from another supervisory body, Supervisory Body shall provide assistance.
Supervisory Body shall assess whether the supervisory body is not competent to provide the assistance, the requested assistance is not proportionate to supervisory activities, or providing the requested assistance would be incompatible with this Regulation. If the supervisory body is not competent to provide the assistance, the requested assistance is not proportionate to supervisory activities, or providing the requested assistance would be incompatible with this Regulation, Supervisory Body shall refuse assistance.
Supervisory Body shall carry out joint investigations if authorised.
Upon receiving a notification of a breach from a trust service provider, Supervisory Body shall assess whether a breach of security or loss of integrity concerns two or more Member States. If a breach of security or loss of integrity concerns two or more Member States, Supervisory Body shall inform the supervisory bodies in other Member States concerned and ENISA of the significant incident.
Supervisory Body shall assess whether it is in the public interest. If in the public interest, Supervisory Body shall inform the public about the breach of security or loss of integrity.
Supervisory Body shall require the trust service provider to inform the public about the breach if in the public interest.
Once a year, Supervisory body shall provide ENISA with a summary of notifications of breach.
The process for the Supervisory Body ends.

The process for the Another Supervisory Body starts.
Another Supervisory Body shall request assistance.
Another Supervisory Body shall transmit a justified request to Supervisory Body.
Another Supervisory Body shall carry out joint investigations if authorised.
The process for the Another Supervisory Body ends.

The process for the Commission starts.
Upon receiving a report on its previous year's main activities and a summary of breach notifications, Commission shall make the annual report available to Member States.
Commission may define the formats and procedures for the report if adjustments needed.
Commission shall adopt those implementing acts.
Commission shall carry out the following 2 activities in parallel:

* Commission may further specify the measures if specification is required.
* Commission may define the formats and procedures if specification is required.
All 2 activities shall be completed before the next step.
The process for the Commission ends.

The process for the Conformity Assessment Body starts.
Upon receiving a request, Conformity Assessment Body shall perform a conformity assessment of the qualified trust service providers.
The process for the Conformity Assessment Body ends.

The process for the Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider starts.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall remedy failures to fulfil requirements if required by supervisory body.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall take appropriate technical and organisational measures to manage the risks.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall take measures to prevent and minimise the impact of security incidents.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall inform stakeholders of the adverse effects of any security incidents.
Within 24 hours after having become aware of it, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall assess whether the breach of security or loss of integrity has a significant impact on the trust service provided or on the personal data. If the breach of security or loss of integrity has a significant impact on the trust service provided or on the personal data, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall notify the supervisory body and other relevant bodies.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall transmit a notification of a breach to Supervisory Body.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall assess whether the breach of security or loss of integrity has a significant impact on the trust service provided or on the personal data. If the breach of security or loss of integrity has a significant impact on the trust service provided or on the personal data, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall notify the natural or legal person.
Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall assess whether it is in the public interest. If in the public interest, Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider shall inform the public about the breach of security or loss of integrity, except where trust service provider should inform public only if required by supervisory body.
The process for the Qualified Trust Service Provider or Non-qualified Trust Service Provider ends.
