The process contains the following actors: Essential and Important Entity, Trust Service Provider, Competent Authority, CSIRT, Single Point of Contact, ENISA, Commission, and Cooperation Group.

The process starts with an incident that has a significant impact on the provision of services.

The process for the Essential and Important Entity starts.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether an incident has caused or is capable of causing severe operational disruption of the services or financial loss for the entity concerned or if an incident has affected or is capable of affecting other natural or legal persons by causing considerable material or non-material damage. If an incident has caused or is capable of causing severe operational disruption of the services or financial loss for the entity concerned or if an incident has affected or is capable of affecting other natural or legal persons by causing considerable material or non-material damage, Essential and Important Entity shall notify the CSIRT or the competent authority.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether an incident has caused or is capable of causing severe operational disruption of the services or financial loss for the entity concerned or if an incident has affected or is capable of affecting other natural or legal persons by causing considerable material or non-material damage or if the significant incident is likely to adversely affect the provision of those services. If an incident has caused or is capable of causing severe operational disruption of the services or financial loss for the entity concerned or if an incident has affected or is capable of affecting other natural or legal persons by causing considerable material or non-material damage or if the significant incident is likely to adversely affect the provision of those services, Essential and Important Entity shall notify the recipients of their services.
Essential and Important Entity shall report any information to determine any cross-border impact of the incident.
Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether applicable. If applicable, Essential and Important Entity shall communicate to the recipients any measures or remedies to take in response to that threat.
Essential and Important Entity shall carry out the following 5 activities in parallel:

* Within 24 hours of becoming aware of the significant incident, Essential and Important Entity shall submit to the CSIRT or the competent authority an early warning.
* Within 72 hours of becoming aware of the significant incident, Essential and Important Entity shall submit to the CSIRT or the competent authority an incident notification.
* Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether upon the request of a CSIRT or the competent authority. If upon the request of a CSIRT or the competent authority, Essential and Important Entity shall submit an intermediate report on relevant status updates.
* Essential and Important Entity shall submit to the CSIRT or the competent authority a final report not later than one month after the submission of the incident notification, except where in the event of an ongoing incident at the time of the submission of the final report, entities shall provide a progress report at that time and a final report within one month of their handling of the incident.
* Essential and Important Entity shall assess whether in the event of an ongoing incident at the time of the submission of the final report. If in the event of an ongoing incident at the time of the submission of the final report, Essential and Important Entity shall provide a progress report at the time of submission of the final report, except where the incident is still ongoing at the time of the final report, a progress report replaces the final report at that stage, with the final report due within one month of handling.
All 5 activities shall be completed before the next step.
Essential and Important Entity may request additional technical support if required.
Essential and Important Entity may inform the public about the significant incident if where public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, upon request, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
The process for the Essential and Important Entity ends.

The process for the Trust Service Provider starts.
Within 24 hours of becoming aware of the significant incident, Trust Service Provider shall notify the CSIRT or the competent authority with regard to significant incidents that have an impact on the provision of its trust services, except where by way of derogation from paragraph 4, first subparagraph, point (b), trust service providers are subject to a 24-hour notification deadline instead of 72 hours.
Trust Service Provider may request guidance or operational advice on the implementation of possible mitigation measures if required.
The process for the Trust Service Provider ends.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Upon receiving the notification, Competent Authority shall ensure that entities notify CSIRT of significant incidents.
Competent Authority shall ensure that entities report information enabling determination of cross-border impact.
Competent Authority shall determine any cross-border impact of the incident.
Competent Authority shall assess whether the entities concerned notify the competent authority. If the entities concerned notify the competent authority, Competent Authority shall ensure that competent authority forwards notification to CSIRT upon receipt.
Competent Authority shall assess whether the entities concerned notify the competent authority. If the entities concerned notify the competent authority, Competent Authority shall forward the notification to the CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall assess whether in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident. If in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident, Competent Authority shall ensure that single points of contact are provided with information.
Competent Authority shall assess whether in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident. If in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident, Competent Authority shall provide relevant information to Single Point of Contact.
Competent Authority shall assess whether applicable. If applicable, Competent Authority shall ensure that entities communicate measures to recipients affected.
Competent Authority shall carry out the following 5 activities in parallel:

* Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit early warning to CSIRT.
* Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit incident notification to CSIRT.
* Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit intermediate report to CSIRT.
* Competent Authority shall ensure that entities submit final report to CSIRT.
* Competent Authority shall assess whether incident is ongoing at time of submission of final report under point (d). If incident is ongoing at time of submission of final report under point (d), Competent Authority shall ensure that entities provide progress report and final report for ongoing incidents.
All 5 activities shall be completed before the next step.
Competent Authority may request an intermediate report on relevant status updates if required.
Within 24 hours of receiving the early warning, Competent Authority shall provide a response to the notifying entity including initial feedback on the significant incident.
Competent Authority shall assess whether upon request of the notifying entity. If upon request of the notifying entity, Competent Authority shall provide guidance or operational advice, except where the CSIRT is not the initial recipient of the notification, the guidance shall be provided by the competent authority in cooperation with the CSIRT.
Competent Authority shall assess whether the CSIRT is not the initial recipient of the notification and upon request of the notifying entity. If the CSIRT is not the initial recipient of the notification and upon request of the notifying entity, Competent Authority shall cooperate with the CSIRT on guidance.
Competent Authority shall assess whether the significant incident is suspected to be of criminal nature. If the significant incident is suspected to be of criminal nature, Competent Authority shall provide guidance on reporting the significant incident to law enforcement authorities.
Competent Authority shall assess whether appropriate and in particular where the significant incident concerns two or more Member States. If appropriate and in particular where the significant incident concerns two or more Member States, Competent Authority shall inform the other affected Member States and ENISA of the significant incident.
When informing other affected Member States and ENISA, Competent Authority shall preserve the entity's security, commercial interests, the confidentiality of the information.
Competent Authority may consult the entity if where public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
Competent Authority may inform the public about the significant incident if where public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
Competent Authority may require the entity to inform the public about the significant incident if where public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
Competent Authority may request to forward notifications to the single points of contact of other affected Member States if required.
Competent Authority shall provide to the competent authorities information about significant incidents.
The process for the Competent Authority ends.

The process for the CSIRT starts.
Upon receiving the notification, CSIRT shall determine any cross-border impact of the incident.
CSIRT shall assess whether in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident. If in the case of a cross-border or cross-sectoral significant incident, CSIRT shall provide relevant information to Single Point of Contact.
CSIRT may request an intermediate report on relevant status updates if required.
Within 24 hours of receiving the early warning, CSIRT shall provide a response to the notifying entity including initial feedback on the significant incident.
CSIRT shall assess whether upon request of the notifying entity. If upon request of the notifying entity, CSIRT shall provide guidance or operational advice, except where the CSIRT is not the initial recipient of the notification, the guidance shall be provided by the competent authority in cooperation with the CSIRT.
CSIRT shall assess whether the entity concerned so requests. If the entity concerned so requests, CSIRT shall provide additional technical support.
CSIRT shall assess whether the significant incident is suspected to be of criminal nature. If the significant incident is suspected to be of criminal nature, CSIRT shall provide guidance on reporting the significant incident to law enforcement authorities.
CSIRT shall assess whether appropriate and in particular where the significant incident concerns two or more Member States. If appropriate and in particular where the significant incident concerns two or more Member States, CSIRT shall inform the other affected Member States and ENISA of the significant incident.
When informing other affected Member States and ENISA, CSIRT shall preserve the entity's security, commercial interests, the confidentiality of the information.
CSIRT may consult the entity if where public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
CSIRT may inform the public about the significant incident if where public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
CSIRT may require the entity to inform the public about the significant incident if where public awareness is necessary to prevent a significant incident or to deal with an ongoing significant incident, or where disclosure of the significant incident is otherwise in the public interest, after consulting the entity concerned, and where appropriate, in the case of CSIRTs or competent authorities of other Member States concerned.
CSIRT may request to forward notifications to the single points of contact of other affected Member States if required.
CSIRT shall provide to the competent authorities information about significant incidents.
The process for the CSIRT ends.

The process for the Single Point of Contact starts.
Upon receiving relevant information, Single Point of Contact shall assess whether appropriate and in particular where the significant incident concerns two or more Member States. If appropriate and in particular where the significant incident concerns two or more Member States, Single Point of Contact shall inform the other affected Member States and ENISA of the significant incident.
When informing other affected Member States and ENISA, Single Point of Contact shall preserve the entity's security, commercial interests, the confidentiality of the information.
Single Point of Contact shall assess whether at the request of the CSIRT or the competent authority. If at the request of the CSIRT or the competent authority, Single Point of Contact shall forward notifications to the single points of contact of other affected Member States.
Every three months, Single Point of Contact shall submit to ENISA a summary report.
The process for the Single Point of Contact ends.

The process for the ENISA starts.
Upon receiving the summary report, ENISA may adopt technical guidance if in order to contribute to the provision of comparable information.
Every six months, ENISA shall inform the Cooperation Group and the CSIRTs network about its findings on notifications received.
The process for the ENISA ends.

The process for the Commission starts.
Commission may adopt implementing acts, specifying the type of information, the format and the procedure of a notification and of a communication if required.
By 17 October 2024, Commission shall adopt implementing acts, specifying the cases in which an incident shall be considered to be significant.
Commission may adopt implementing acts, specifying the cases in which an incident shall be considered to be significant with regard to essential and important entities if required.
Commission shall exchange advice and cooperate with the Cooperation Group on the draft.
Commission shall assess whether when adopting implementing acts under paragraph 11. If when adopting implementing acts under paragraph 11, Commission shall adopt implementing acts.
The process for the Commission ends.

The process for the Cooperation Group starts.
Upon receiving the draft, Cooperation Group shall exchange advice and cooperate with the Commission on the draft.
The process for the Cooperation Group ends.
