The process contains the following actors: Manufacturer (with lanes: Manufacturer of custom-made devices, Manufacturer of implantable devices), Quality Management System, Competent Authority, Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party.

The process starts with placing devices on the market or putting them into service.

The process for the Manufacturer starts.
When placing their devices on the market or putting them into service, Manufacturer shall ensure that devices have been designed and manufactured IAW the requirements.
Manufacturer shall establish a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall document a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall implement a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall maintain a system for risk management.
Manufacturer shall conduct a clinical evaluation.
Manufacturer shall assess whether they are a manufacturer of custom-made devices.
If they are a manufacturer of custom-made devices, Manufacturer of custom-made devices shall draw up documentation.
Manufacturer of custom-made devices shall keep up to date documentation.
Manufacturer of custom-made devices shall keep available for competent authorities documentation.
If they are not a manufacturer of custom-made devices, Manufacturer shall draw up technical documentation.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date technical documentation.
Manufacturer shall assess whether compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated.
If compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated, Manufacturer shall draw up an EU declaration of conformity, except where they are a manufacturer of custom-made devices or a manufacturer of investigational devices.
If compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated, Manufacturer shall affix the CE marking of conformity, except where they are a manufacturer of custom-made devices or a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall comply with the obligations.
Manufacturer shall assess whether they are a manufacturer of implantable devices.
If they are a manufacturer of implantable devices, for a period of at least 15 years after the last device has been placed on the market, Manufacturer of implantable devices shall keep the technical documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and a copy of any relevant certificate.
If they are not a manufacturer of implantable devices, for a period of at least 10 years after the last device has been placed on the market, Manufacturer shall keep the technical documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and a copy of any relevant certificate.
Upon receiving a request for technical documentation, Manufacturer shall provide technical documentation in its entirety or a summary.
Manufacturer shall assess whether the manufacturer has a registered place of business outside the Union and allow the authorised representative to fulfil the tasks mentioned in Article 11(3).
If the conditions are true, Manufacturer shall ensure that the authorised representative has the necessary documentation available.
Manufacturer shall ensure that procedures are in place to keep series production in conformity with the requirements.
Manufacturer shall take into account changes in device design or characteristics and changes in the harmonised standards.
Manufacturer shall establish a quality management system, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall document a quality management system, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall implement a quality management system, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall maintain a quality management system, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date a quality management system, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall improve a quality management system, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Manufacturer shall implement the post-market surveillance system.
Manufacturer shall keep up to date the post-market surveillance system.
Manufacturer shall ensure that the device is accompanied by the information.
Manufacturer shall assess whether the device is not in conformity with this Regulation.
If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall bring the device into conformity.
If the device conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall withdraw the device.
If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall recall the device.
If the device is not in conformity with this Regulation, Manufacturer shall inform the distributors of the device, the authorised representative and importers.
Manufacturer shall assess whether the device is not in conformity with this Regulation and the device presents a serious risk.
If the conditions are true, Manufacturer shall notify the non-compliance to the competent authorities and the notified body.
Manufacturer shall have a system for recording and reporting of incidents and corrective actions.
Upon receiving a request for documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the device, Manufacturer shall provide the competent authority with all the information and documentation.
Upon receiving a requirement to provide samples of the device free of charge, Manufacturer shall provide samples of the device.
Upon receiving a requirement to grant access to the device, Manufacturer shall grant access to the device.
Upon receiving a request for collaboration, Manufacturer shall cooperate with a competent authority.
Where manufacturers have their devices designed or manufactured by another legal or natural person, Manufacturer shall ensure that the information on the person identity is part of the submitted information.
Manufacturer shall have measures to provide sufficient financial coverage.
The process for the Manufacturer ends with general obligations fulfilled end event.

The process for the Quality Management System starts.
Quality Management System shall cover all parts and elements of a manufacturer's organisation, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Quality Management System shall govern the structure, responsibilities, procedures, processes and management resources, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
Quality Management System shall address at least the aspects set out in paragraph 9, except where they are a manufacturer of investigational devices.
The process for the Quality Management System ends with system specifications addressed end event.

The process for the Competent Authority starts.
Competent Authority may send a request for technical documentation to the Manufacturer if required.
Competent Authority may send a request for documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the device to the Manufacturer if required.
Competent Authority may send a requirement to provide samples of the device free of charge to the Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may send a requirement to grant access to the device to the Manufacturer.
Competent Authority may send a request for collaboration to the Manufacturer.
Competent Authority shall assess whether the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect.
If the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect, Competent Authority may take all appropriate measures to prohibit or restrict the device.
If the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect, Competent Authority may withdraw the device from that market.
If the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect, Competent Authority may recall the device until the manufacturer cooperates or provides information.
Upon receiving a request for provision of information related to device damage, Competent Authority shall facilitate the provision of the information and documentation to the potentially injured patient or user if a competent authority considers or has reason to believe that a device has caused damage and without prejudice to data protection rules, except where there is an overriding public interest in disclosure or the competent authority need not comply with this obligation where disclosure of the information and documentation referred to in the first subparagraph is ordinarily dealt with in the context of legal proceedings.
The process for the Competent Authority ends with regulatory actions completed end event.

The process for the Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party starts.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party may send a request for provision of information related to device damage to the Competent Authority if a competent authority considers or has reason to believe that a device has caused damage.
Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party may claim compensation for damage caused by a defective device if required.
The process for the Patient / User or Successor or Health Insurance Company or Third Party ends with compensation claimed end event.
